[Music]
so what happened before the Big Bang
does our universe have an edge how come
we know next to nothing about dark
matter and dark energy what if there are
no black holes will we ever find the
answers to the most intriguing questions
about the universe stay tuned what if
there are no black holes most people
imagine a black hole to be a starving
monster with a gravitational pull so
strong that nothing including light can
escape it as soon as something reaches
the event horizon aka the point of no
return there's no way back but then how
about information quantum physics which
describes how everything in the world
works claims that nothing can destroy
data but if this nothing includes black
holes well then we have a paradox on our
hands that's when Stephen Hawking came
up with a new idea can it be that black
holes don't have event horizons instead
they may have apparent horizons those
can only trap stuff for some time after
that matter or energy will escape but in
a different form it means that black
holes won't be able to wipe information
just change it if this theory is true
and there's no event horizon then there
are no black holes as we know them is
there going to be a Big Crunch a big rip
or a big freeze yeah I know where you
can get a big gulp many astronomers
agree that the universe might end some
2.8 to 22 billion years from now if the
universe is expanding and it is it means
it was born from a much more compact
state like Rhode Island and if it does
have a beginning it's likely to come to
an end - but scientists can't agree on
the way it'll happen one of the most
popular theories is a Big Crunch
got captain cried once the growth of the
universe slows down to a crawl the
gravity will become the main force it'll
make the universe shrink causing planets
stars and galaxies to collide with one
another it'll be the Big Bang in Reverse
with everything collapsing in on itself
then there's also the big rip theory one
day the pull of the universe expanding
may grow stronger than the gravity
it'll tear apart everything in space
even black holes there will be just
clouds of single disconnected particles
floating all over the universe and let's
not forget about the most likely
scenario the big freeze the universe is
expanding faster and faster
one day this growth will pull previously
visible galaxies too far away and we
won't ever see them again
many billions of years later the
universe will turn into a huge dark
empty and incredibly cold place with no
movement at all what was there before
the Big Bang
in short no one knows but there are
theories most people imagine the Big
Bang as some place where everything
started but it's actually not a point
but a moment in time before it all
happened the universe could be a super
hot ultra dense material then the Big
Bang would become its main evolution
point or there could be another universe
before the Big Bang it would be
identical to ours but on the way to its
own Big Crunch then the Big Bang could
be a switch from the period of shrinking
to that of expansion even better the Big
Bounce theory claims there could be
countless Big Bang's while the universe
kept expanding shrinking and expanding
again one more idea is that before the
Big Bang there were two separate
universes that collapse and form the
place we live in
what if our universe is just a
simulation some scientists think there's
a chance we're living in some kind of
virtual reality then our universe could
be a giant quantum computer and atoms
and electrons nothing else but data bits
Elon Musk for example once said we might
live in a simulation created by a super
advanced future civilization this idea
might seem to sci-fi at first glance but
don't forget that even Albert Einstein
in his theory of relativity admitted
time-travel was a could be if the
universe has an edge what's there beyond
it astronomers know for sure that the
universe is growing bigger and the speed
at which it's ballooning is increasing
all the time but if the whole thing is
swelling into something bigger then it
must have some kind of an edge right
it's unlikely that people will ever find
out but if so then what would it be a
ginormous brick wall and then nothing an
abyss that leads to nowhere the most
common theory is that the universe is
shaped in such a way that it can't have
an edge but it's not the only idea
another theory is even more difficult to
comprehend the universe is indeed
infinite and our part of it isn't that
unique it means that somewhere out there
there's another you or rather other you
one of them is just a bit shorter
another wears their hair in different
ways and a third one is identical to you
in all possible ways hey good-looking
what if our universe is just a part of
multiverse oh yeah
there's also a theory about a multi
universe that consists of many smaller
universes and the universe we live in is
just a tiny bubble among other similar
bubbles those scientists who support
this idea are also sure that bubble
universes can come into contact with one
another then gravity starts to flow
between them and when two or three
universes connect a big bang occurs just
like the one that created our home
universe what is dark energy everything
on earth and everything people have
managed to see in space with the help of
telescopes and other instruments is
normal matter it's made up of atoms and
molecules and adds up to less than 5% of
the universe almost 3/4 of the universe
is dark energy
astronomers wouldn't even know the thing
existed if several decades ago they
hadn't found out that the expansion of
the universe wasn't slowing down quite
the opposite
it was accelerating it meant there had
to be some enigmatic force that
counteracted gravity
it got dubbed dark energy what does Dark
Matter consist of about 27% of the
remaining universe is dark matter
another thing that confuses scientists
and no end if dark energy is a force
responsible for the expansion of the
universe Dark Matters supposed to
explain how objects work together
potential candidates for dark matter
vary from strange particles to super dim
objects but even though astronomers
can't grasp what exactly dark matter is
they know for sure what it isn't it's
dark meaning we can rule out visible
stars and planets it also can't be dark
clouds of normal matter otherwise
scientists would be able to detect it
dark matter is not antimatter
astronomers don't see unique gamma rays
that appear when antimatter comes in
contact with matter and neither is dark
matter gigantic galaxy sized black holes
hey maybe they're gigantic unwrapped
Hershey Kisses floating out there in the
cosmos it could happen why is the Sun
kinda too hot or at least how come the
Stars outer layer is way hotter than its
surface the sun's temperatures vary from
10,000 degrees Fahrenheit close to the
surface and a mind-boggling 900,000
degrees fahrenheit in the corona the
sun's outermost layer the reason for
this phenomenon might be nanoflares
regular powerful bursts of
heat from the star another theory blames
a layer just beneath the Sun surface
acting as a pan with boiling water it
may be generating a weak magnetic field
when the energy from this layer leaves
the Sun it heats the corona through a
mesh of magnetic branches and roots are
we alone in the universe there are
several hundred billion stars just in
our home Milky Way galaxy alone imagine
the sheer number of planets orbiting
these stars even better there may be up
to two trillion galaxies in the visible
universe which makes it unlikely for
people to be all alone in this world
but before drawing conclusions
scientists must find planets that can
support life that's why astronomers keep
focused on what's happening up there
with the help of powerful telescopes on
the ground and in space for example
tests which stands for the transiting
exoplanet survey satellite is doing an
all-sky exoplanet search the space
Observatory is equipped with wide field
cameras they help the satellite observe
85% of the entire sky Tests watches the
brightest stars trying to spot moving
exoplanets from earth size to gas giants
like Saturn or Jupiter who knows one day
we just might be able to say howdy
neighbor